Eric Velte
CTO, ASRC Federal
Eric Velte and his team helped drive a culture of transparency and collaboration by managing Centers of Excellence and Communities of Practice for major capability areas to share knowledge, innovations and best practices across a variety of programs and customers, from defense to civilian.

In 2023, his team organized the second annual companywide technology summit, attracting over 300 practitioners, program managers and technology partners for training, workshops and networking. The team also launched a new Technical Fellows Program to honor ASRC Federal’s technical experts. These fellows are tasked with developing and implementing innovative technologies and business practices, enhancing the company’s standing as a leader in technical fields and providing customers with solutions.

“It’s exciting to foster an environment where our best technological minds can experiment and build new solutions to many of the nation’s most challenging missions,” Velte said. “For instance, one of our AI/ML tools is leading the way in synthetic data generation, making complex modeling and simulation scenarios accessible to our DOD customers.”

Why Watch 

In 2024, Velte and ASRC Federal’s team of scientists and engineers will continue to focus on delivering innovation to programs and customers with a focus on cloud migration, data architectures and AI/ML/AR enablement. There will also be a critical focus on growing new capabilities and continuing to blend ASRC Federal’s newly acquired supply chain and logistics capability with emerging technologies such as AI/ML and predictive analytics ensuring supply chains become even more robust, secure and efficient.

Looking ahead, Velte is focused on facilitating mobility for technologists between various programs at the company to encourage knowledge sharing and career development. His team will also continue the new STRIDE technology internship program that launched last summer.

Fun Fact: Velte is an avid golfer and enjoys traveling and scuba diving. 
