Susan Penfield
CTO, Booz Allen Hamilton
Susan Penfield has expanded Booz Allen’s leading role in deploying AI for the federal government through the growth of the company’s AI capabilities. These include specialized AI technology stacks in cyber AI, vision AI, generative AI, responsible AI and AI security that help clients achieve mission objectives more rapidly, cost-effectively and at enterprise scale.

Booz Allen now has 200 active AI projects across the government—including three of the largest AI contracts within the Defense Department. The company was named the No. 1 provider of AI services to the federal government by GovWin from Deltek. In October 2023, Booz Allen published its annual technology report, “The Age of Principled AI.”

“Innovation isn’t a finish line – it’s a continuous ascent,” Penfield said. “We don’t build technology for the present; we build it for the possibilities it ignites.”

Why Watch

In 2024, Penfield’s team is heavily focused on equipping clients with secure and responsible AI. Penfield believes the release of the administration’s executive order on AI marks a pivotal moment that requires answers to simple, yet complex, questions that must be addressed to transform with purpose: How do we control and govern AI? How do we mitigate unintended consequences? And who has a role in ensuring that we get this right as an industry?

Booz Allen’s global network of AI practitioners ⏤ over 2,100 data scientists and engineers, AI researchers and solution architects, and machine learning engineers, including approximately 200 Ph.D.s ⏤ are ready to take a seat at the table, provide a North Star for clients and help construct a bright, responsible, AI future.

“Susan Penfield’s leadership style combines a can-do spirit and inclusive mindset,” said Horacio Rozanski, Booz Allen CEO. “She harnesses the power of technology, while maintaining an unwavering commitment to the human element, ensuring everyone sees a place for themselves in an AI-enabled future.”

Penfield said she believes in “paying it forward” in life.

“Smart, caring people helped me get where I am today,” she said. “We all need a fighter in our corner.”

Fun Fact: Penfield loves to learn something new every day and looks constantly to stay abreast of tech innovations impacting clients and their missions. Currently, on her bedside table is the book, “The Age of AI” by Henry A. Kissinger, Eric Schmidt and Daniel Huttenlocher. It’s an enlightening read on how AI is transforming human society and how the future will be shaped by a “partnership” with AI. 

