David Egts
Field CTO of Public Sector at MuleSoft at Salesforce
In 2023, David Egts crisscrossed the U.S., presenting at conferences and events, leading executive roundtables and holding one-on-one advisory meetings with government leaders.

At Salesforce’s marquee annual conference, Dreamforce, Egts co-presented with the Singapore government on how it transformed service delivery to make Singapore a frictionless destination for businesses to thrive.

By sharing his lessons learned and connecting government leaders globally, he helped agencies plot a clear course from modernization to innovation.

“David’s not just our field CTO, he’s a force for change,” said Lisa DeMille, senior vice president of solution engineering at Salesforce. “He’s the secret weapon at the intersection of turning cutting-edge tech into real-world solutions for the public good and unlocking the future with coalitions of public and private change agents. With AI at the forefront of many conversations with global government leaders, David is one of our most trusted advisors who will help governments revolutionize citizen service. Keep your eyes on him ⏤ he’s the future of impactful collaboration.”

Why Watch 

As a trusted advisor at the intersection of government and commercial innovation, Egts is known for advising and connecting public and private sector change agents. With AI being front of mind with IT leaders in 2024, he sees where the private sector is headed and works with public sector leaders as the founding co-chair of the WashingtonExec CTO Council to ensure AI accelerates government service delivery quickly, efficiently and effectively.

Fun Fact: For decades, Egts has been inspired by his daughter Lauren to champion STEM education and increase female representation in science and technology. He internally and externally mentors early-career professionals and students from his alma mater, the University of Pittsburgh. He and his wife also established the first endowed scholarship to benefit women in computer science at the Rochester Institute of Technology.
